---
title: A brief reflection on my past 4 years
description: Reflection on my area of interest, the past 4 years as of this writing, and what I might want to do in the future.
date: 2026-06-02
author:
  name: Peter Delwita
---

I think the biggest area of growth for me in computer science was learning how to use different frameworks (Vite -> Vue -> Nuxt) and learning to use different development tools (such as TailwindCSS) to my advantage as a programmer. Vite helped me get into Vue and was like an introduction to frameworks, Vue made coding more convenient thanks to its single-file components (HTML, CSS, and JS in one file) and since it allowed my sites to have more than one page, and Nuxt made it even more convenient by removing the need for imports in most places and by being designed to be type-safe (regarding TypeScript). TailwindCSS made web design easier and more intuitive. These tools have made coding more convenient for me, which is especially important for building applications on a larger scale.

What I want to do in the future is to try experimenting with other frameworks (e.g. React) and brush up on my coding skills (especially over the summer). React is a very popular framework and I want to try to at least grasp the basics since I think it sounds interesting. I also want to continue working on my interpersonal skills (particularly communication) since those are going to be extremely important when I join the workforce; a lot of work in computer science is done in teams, and I want to get good at doing that since that would help me grow tthe most as a person and as a programmer. I plan on doing CS as a career and as a major in college, so that has been a major factor in my plans for the near future. I'm also a bit curious about C as well, and want to learn about it at least a little.

I spent my first year of computer science studying Python (for the spring semester), and due to a resource room class I had in my sophomore year (this was in high school), there was a one-year-gap between my first and second year of studying computer science. My second year of CS onward revolved around web development. I started with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript before moving on to plugins (e.g. TailwindCSS) and new frameworks (Vite, Vue). I eventually started using Nuxt during my senior year. If I had a do-over of my entire high schoole experience, one thing I'd do differently would be to give up resource room a year early so that I could dedicate an extra year to studying computer science.

Speaking of interpersonal skills, I can say, without a doubt, that programming while part of a team throughout my senior year of high school has been the most important experience for me over the past four years and what I am most proud of; doing so allowed me to improve my communication skills and strengthened my ability to work in a group. Asking for help has gotten easier within the past year, as has collaboration and using feedback to improve. 

On that note, I want to spend my time in college developing my interpersonal skills. Asking for help and reaching out to people, for example, are things I want to do more often and get better at since those are necessary communication skills. I also want to think about double majors I could pursue on top of computer science; some examples I have in mind are finance, information technology, and computer engineering. Having a niche is very important (especially when finding a job since you want to stand out), which is my rationale for pursuing a double major.

In sunmmary, I find that honing my interpersonal skills and experimenting with different programming tools is going to be highly important for me as I develop as a programmer, and I am proudest of working in a team for bringing me closer to that.